AcademyR - Certification Study Guide
1. Introduction to Big Data Analytics (5%)

Objectives

Describe the characteristics of big data and associated challenges

Understand technology and architectural strategy for big data

Study Resources

What is data science? O’Reilly
Real-Time Big Data Analytics: Emerging Architecture
Fast, Powerful and Cost-Effective Analytics Reshaping Business Competition Worldwide
The Rise of Big Data Spurs a Revolution in Big Analytics
2. R as a programming language (25%)

Objectives

Perform Simple Manipulations on numbers and vectors
Perform operations on arrays and matrices
Understanding of objects, their modes and attributes.
Perform operations on ordered and unordered factors.
Use lists and data frames for more complex operations
Use basic pre-built functions in R
Write your own functions in R
Understand scoping rules
Recognize different types of objected oriented programming in R
Customizing the R environment
R installation and Administration
Study Resources

Venebles, Smith and R Development Core Team, “Introduction to R”
'R in Action'
Burns, R Inferno (Optional)
3. Big Data Management in Revolution R Enterprise (30%)

Objectives

Import and export large data from data sources
Compute summary statistics on large data
Compute cross tabulation on data sets.
Perform different types of data manipulations such as transforming, subsetting, merging, recording, sorting and aggregation
Visualize large data sets
Study Resources

RevoScaleR User Guide, Chapters 1 to 4,15 to 17
RevoScaleR Data step
4. Big Data Exploration and Statistical analysis in Revolution R Enterprise (20%)

Objectives

Perform data summaries and crosstabs on large data
Perform correlation and variance/Covariance Matrices
Analyze a scenario and determine the methods to deploy for variable selection
Analyze a scenario and deploy appropriate statistical tests
Use unsupervised learning techniques (e.g. k-means clustering)
Study Resources

RevoScaleR User Guide, Chapters 5, 6, 12
Kabacoff, R in Action Chapter 7,14 (Optional)
5. Advanced Big Data Analytics - Modeling in Revolution R Enterprise (20%)

Objectives

Describe the steps for training a set of data in order to identify new data based on known data
Describe the critical steps in model selection, prediction, validation and scoring
Identify the use cases for logistic regression, Bayes theorem
Estimate generalized linear models with large data
Use decision trees and forests for classification and regression
Perform simulations in parallel using tools provided by Revolution R Enterprise
Study Resources

RevoScaleR User Guide, Chapters 5, 6, 12
Big data decision trees with R
James, Witten, Hastie & Tibshirani– Introduction to Statistical Learning (Chapters 1-4, 6, 8, 10)
Kabacoff, R in Action, Chapter 8, 13 (Optional)
Kuhn, Max Applied Predictive Modeling with R. (Optional)
